## Code

runDataMining.r runs statTemporal.r, statTemporalGroupes.r and statTemporalSubject.r, which performs namely:
- aggregation of data by week and month of all mails
- aggregation by week and month of mails for each thread
- aggregation by week and month of mails posted by each group of the network (if the graph analysis has been performed)

It takes 2 inputs: the path of folder "Data", and an integer (0 or 1) to indicate if the graph analysis has been performed
Graphs and txt files in "Results" are generated by this function to visualize the results of these analyses.

statTemporalGroupes.r and statTemporalSubject.r both call a sub function, statGpeI.r and statSubjectI.r which performs the aggregation for a single group or thread subject.

For more information on their inputs and outputs, you can look at the comments in the text of each function.

## Data files

year.txt and month.txt are used to take into account the irregularities of the calendar, namely the bissextile years and the number of days in each month. 
In month.txt, each month is associated to 2 number of days, corresponding to the number of days passed efore this month. The first one gives this account in case of a non bissextile year, the second one of a bissextile one.
In year.txt, each year is associated with a number of days passed since the first day of march 2013 (the beginning of mail exchanges) to the start of the year. It is also indicated if the year is or not bissextile.

mondays.txt gives the list of mondays since the first mail exchange.
The dates are given in 3 columns DD/MM/YYYY
